include performance tuning documentation for opensearch indexing scenarios (#4603)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _im-plugin/performance.md

---
layout: default

> title: Performance considerations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Tuning for indexing speed
```

nav_order: 41
has_children: false
---

> # Performance considerations while tuning Opensearch for indexing speed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Tuning your cluster for indexing speed
```

Author: accepted your feedback, and updated in the new location in the doc.

The following configurations have demonstrated around 60% improvements in throughput when

> running an indexing only workload compared to the out of box experience. The workload did not

Reviewer: ```suggestion
running an indexing only workload compared to the out-of-the-box experience. The workload did not
```

> incorporate search or other scenarios. Only the opensearch server process was run on the machines,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
incorporate search or other scenarios. Only the OpenSearch server process was run on the machines,
```

with the benchmark clients hosted on a different node.

> The execution environment used comprises of Intel EC2 instances (r7iz.2xlarge) on the AWS cloud, and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The execution environment was comprises of Intel EC2 instances (r7iz.2xlarge) on the AWS cloud, and the
```

> workload was StackOverflow dataset available as part of OpenSearch Benchmark.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
workload was the StackOverflow dataset available as part of OpenSearch Benchmark.
```

> ## Java Heap Size

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Java heap size
```

A larger Java heap size is useful for indexing. Setting the Java min and max heap sizes to 50% of RAM

> sizes shows better indexing performance on ec2 instances.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
size shows better indexing performance on EC2 instances.
```

## Flush translog threshold

> Default value for `flush_threshold_size` is 512MB. This means that the translog is flushed when it reaches 512 MB. The weight of the indexing load determines the frequency of the translog. When you increase index.translog.flush_threshold_size, the node performs the translog operation less frequently. Because OpenSearch Service flushes are resource-intensive operations, reducing the frequency of translogs improves indexing performance. By increasing the flush threshold size, the OpenSearch Service cluster also creates fewer large segments (instead of multiple small segments). Large segments merge less often, and more threads are used for indexing instead of merging.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Default value for `flush_threshold_size` is 512 MB. This means that the translog is flushed when it reaches 512 MB. The weight of the indexing load determines the frequency of the translog. When you increase `index.translog.flush_threshold_size`, the node performs the translog operation less frequently. Because flushes are resource-intensive operations, reducing the frequency of translogs improves indexing performance. By increasing the flush threshold size, the OpenSearch cluster also creates fewer large segments instead of multiple small segments. Large segments merge less often, and more threads are used for indexing instead of merging.
```

> For pure indexing workloads, consider increasing this value, e.g., 25% of the Java Heap size, to improve indexing performance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For pure indexing workloads, consider increasing the `flush_threshold_size`, for example, to 25% of the Java heap size, to improve indexing performance.
```

> Note: An increase in index.translog.flush_threshold_size can also increase the time that it takes for a translog to complete. If a shard fails, then recovery takes more time because the translog is larger.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An increased `index.translog.flush_threshold_size` can also increase the time that it takes for a translog to complete. If a shard fails, then recovery takes more time because the translog is larger.
{: .note}
```

> Before increasing index.translog.flush_threshold_size, call the following API operation to get current flush operation statistics:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before increasing `index.translog.flush_threshold_size`, call the following API operation to get current flush operation statistics:
```

```json
curl -XPOST "os-endpoint/index-name/_stats/flush?pretty"

> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```
{% include copy.html %}

````

> Replace the os-endpoint and index-name with your respective variables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Replace the `os-endpoint` and `index-name` with your endpoint and index name.
```

> In the output, note the number of flushes and the total time. The following example output shows that there are 124 flushes, which took 17,690 milliseconds:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the output, note the number of flushes and the total time. The following example output shows that there are 124 flushes, which took 17,690 milliseconds:

```

```json
{
     "flush": {
          "total": 124,
          "total_time_in_millis": 17690
     }
}
```

> To increase the flush threshold size, call the following API operation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To increase the flush threshold size, call the following API operation:

```

```json

> $ curl -XPUT "os-endpoint/index-name/_settings?pretty" -d "{"index":{"translog.flush_threshold_size" : "1024MB"}}"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
curl -XPUT "os-endpoint/index-name/_settings?pretty" -d "{"index":{"translog.flush_threshold_size" : "1024MB"}}"
```

> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```
{% include copy.html %}
````

In this example, the flush threshold size is set to 1024 MB, which is ideal for instances that have more than 32 GB of memory.

> Note: Choose the appropriate threshold size for your OpenSearch Service domain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Choose the appropriate threshold size for your cluster.
{: .note}
```

> Run the _stats API operation again to see whether the flush activity changed:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the stats API operation again to see whether the flush activity changed:

```

```json

> $ curl _XGET "os-endpoint/index-name/_stats/flush?pretty"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
curl _XGET "os-endpoint/index-name/_stats/flush?pretty"
```

> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```
{% include copy.html %}
````

> Note: It's a best practice to increase the index.translog.flush_threshold_size only for the current index. After you confirm the outcome, apply the changes to the index template.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's a best practice to increase the `index.translog.flush_threshold_size` only for the current index. After you confirm the outcome, apply the changes to the index template.
{: .note}
```

> ## Index Refresh Interval

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Index refresh interval
```

> By default, Opensearch periodically refreshes indices every second, but only on indices that have

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, Opensearch periodically refreshes indexes every second. OpenSearch only refreshes indexes that have
```

> received one search request in the last 30 second1.

Reviewer: At least one search request?

> received one search request in the last 30 second1.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
received one search request in the last 30 seconds.
```

> When you increase the refresh interval, the data node makes fewer API calls. The refresh interval can be shorter or faster, depending on the length of the refresh interval. To prevent [429 errors](https://repost.aws/knowledge-center/opensearch-resolve-429-error), it's a best practice to increase the refresh interval.

Reviewer: I'm not sure what's meant by this sentence "The refresh interval can be shorter or faster, depending on the length of the refresh interval." Does this mean we can change the refresh interval? If so, I don't think this sentence is needed.

Author: This got copy-pasted when I merged the doc from here per previous reviewer's suggestion: https://repost.aws/knowledge-center/opensearch-indexing-performance

I'll remove it as it doesn't make sense.

> If you can afford to increase the amount of time between when a document gets indexed and when it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your application can tolerate increasing the amount of time between when a document gets indexed and when it
```

> becomes visible, increasing the `index.refresh_interval` to a larger value, e.g. 30s, or even disable it in a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
becomes visible, you can increase the `index.refresh_interval` to a larger value, for example 30s, or even disable it in a
```

> pure indexing scenario, it helps improve indexing speed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
pure indexing scenario, in order to improve indexing speed.
```

> ## Index Buffer Size

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Index buffer size
```

> If the node is doing heavy indexing, be sure this value is large enough. This is set as a percentage of the

Reviewer: Is there a setting for this value that we can reference? (similar to `index.translog.flush_threshold_size`)

> If the node is doing heavy indexing, be sure this value is large enough. This is set as a percentage of the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the node is doing heavy indexing, ensure the index buffer size is large enough. You can set the index buffer size as a percentage of the
```

> java heap or in bytes. In most cases, the default value of 10% of JVM memory is sufficient2. You can try

Reviewer: ```suggestion
java heap size or as the number of bytes. In most cases, the default value of 10% of JVM memory is sufficient. You can try
```

> increasing it up to 25% to observe further gains.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
increasing it up to 25% for further improvement.
```

## Concurrent merges

> Concurrent merges with `max_merge_count`: The concurrentMergeScheduler controls the execution of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The maximum number of concurrent merges is specified as `max_merge_count`. The concurrentMergeScheduler controls the execution of
```

> merge operations when they are needed. Merges run in separate threads, and when max number of

Reviewer: I would remove the second sentence about the concurrentMergeScheduler.
```suggestion
merge operations when they are needed. Merges run in separate threads, and when the maximum number of
```

> threads is reached, further merges will wait until a merge thread becomes available3.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
threads is reached, further merges will wait until a merge thread becomes available.
```

In cases where index throttling is an issue, consider increasing the number of merge threads beyond the
default value.

## Shard distribution

> To be sure that the shards are distributed evenly across the data nodes for the index that you're ingesting into, use the following formula to confirm that the shards are evenly distributed:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To ensure that the shards are distributed evenly across the data nodes for the index that you're ingesting into, use the following formula to confirm that the shards are evenly distributed:
```

Number of shards for index = k * (Number of data nodes), where k is the number of shards per node

> For example, if there are 24 shards in the index, and there are eight data nodes, then OpenSearch Service assigns three shards to each node. For more information, see [Get started with Amazon OpenSearch Service: How many shards do I need?](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/database/get-started-with-amazon-elasticsearch-service-how-many-shards-do-i-need/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, if there are 24 shards in the index, and there are eight data nodes, then OpenSearch assigns three shards to each node. 
```

> ## Replica Count to zero

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Setting replica count to zero
```

> If you anticipate heavy indexing, consider setting the index.number_of_replicas value to "0." Each replica duplicates the indexing process. As a result, disabling the replicas improves your cluster performance. After the heavy indexing is complete, reactivate the replicated indices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you anticipate heavy indexing, consider setting the `index.number_of_replicas` value to `0`. Each replica duplicates the indexing process. As a result, disabling the replicas improves your cluster performance. After the heavy indexing is complete, reactivate the replicated indices.
```

> Important: If a node fails while replicas are disabled, you might lose data. Disable the replicas only if you can tolerate data loss for a short duration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a node fails while replicas are disabled, you might lose data. Disable the replicas only if you can tolerate data loss for a short duration.
{: .important }
```

## Experiment to find the optimal bulk request size

> Start with the bulk request size of 5 MiB to 15 MiB. Then, slowly increase the request size until the indexing performance stops improving. For more information, see [Using and sizing bulk requests](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/guide/2.x/indexing-performance.html#_using_and_sizing_bulk_requests) on the Elasticsearch website.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Start with the bulk request size of 5 MiB to 15 MiB. Then slowly increase the request size until the indexing performance stops improving. 
```

> Note: Some instance types limit bulk requests to 10 MiB. For more information, see [Network limits](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/opensearch-service/latest/developerguide/limits.html#network-limits).

Reviewer: This seems to be an OpenSearch Service-related note so I would remove.

> ## Use an instance type that has SSD instance store volumes (such as I3)

Reviewer: Same as above - seems service-related. If so, remove.

Author: this is generic. NVME based instances deliver better performance for ingestion. Not specific to opensearch service.

I3 instances provide fast and local memory express (NVMe) storage. I3 instances deliver better ingestion performance than instances that use General Purpose SSD (gp2) Amazon Elastic Block Store (Amazon EBS) volumes. For more information, see [Petabyte scale for Amazon OpenSearch Service](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/opensearch-service/latest/developerguide/petabyte-scale.html).

## Reduce response size

> To reduce the size of OpenSearch Service's response, use the filter_path parameter to exclude unnecessary fields. Be sure that you don't filter out any fields that are required to identify or retry failed requests. Those fields can vary by client.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To reduce the size of OpenSearch's response, use the filter_path parameter to exclude unnecessary fields. Be sure that you don't filter out any fields that are required to identify or retry failed requests. Those fields can vary by client.
```

> In the following example, the index-name, type-name, and took fields are excluded from the response:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following example, the `index-name`, `type-name`, and `took` fields are excluded from the response:
```

```json
curl -XPOST "es-endpoint/index-name/type-name/_bulk?pretty&filter_path=-took,-items.index._index,-items.index._type" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d'
{ "index" : { "_index" : "test2", "_id" : "1" } }
{ "user" : "testuser" }
{ "update" : {"_id" : "1", "_index" : "test2"} }
{ "doc" : {"user" : "example"} }
```

> For more information, see [Reducing response size](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/opensearch-service/latest/developerguide/indexing.html#indexing-size).

Reviewer: Remove lines 128-134
